Edward Hopper (July 22, 1882 – May 15, 1967) was a prominent American realist painter and printmaker.
While he was most popularly known for his oil paintings, he was equally proficient as a watercolorist and printmaker in etching.

Both in his urban and rural scenes, his spare and finely calculated renderings reflected his personal vision of modern American life.

Always reluctant to discuss himself and his art, Hopper simply said, 'The whole answer is there on the canvas.'

Hopper was stoic and fatalistic—a quiet introverted man with a gentle sense of humor and a frank manner.

Hopper was someone drawn to an emblematic, anti-narrative symbolism, who 'painted short isolated moments of configuration, saturated with suggestion'.

His silent spaces and uneasy encounters 'touch us where we are most vulnerable', and have 'a suggestion of melancholy, that melancholy being enacted'.

His sense of color revealed him as a pure painter as he 'turned the Puritan into the purist, in his quiet canvasses where blemishes and blessings balance'.

According to critic Lloyd Goodrich, he was 'an eminently native painter, who more than any other was getting more of the quality of America into his canvases'.

Conservative in politics and social matters (Hopper asserted for example that 'artists' lives should be written by people very close to them'), he accepted things as they were and displayed a lack of idealism.

Cultured and sophisticated, he was well-read, and many of his paintings show figures reading.

He was generally good company and unperturbed by silences, though sometimes taciturn, grumpy, or detached. He was always serious about his art and the art of others, and when asked would return frank opinions.

Hopper's most systematic declaration of his philosophy as an artist was given in a handwritten note, entitled 'Statement', submitted in 1953 to the journal, Reality:

Great art is the outward expression of an inner life in the artist, and this inner life will result in his personal vision of the world.

No amount of skillful invention can replace the essential element of imagination.

One of the weaknesses of much abstract painting is the attempt to substitute the inventions of the human intellect for a private imaginative conception.

The inner life of a human being is a vast and varied realm and does not concern itself alone with stimulating arrangements of color, form and design.

The term life used in art is something not to be held in contempt, for it implies all of existence an
